Sometimes the Kobe right has
the possibility of throwing various
exceptions and we wanna be prepared
to handle like any of them, right?
So, there's three ways that you can
handle multiple exceptions at once.
You can use polymorphism.
I'll show you how to do that?
You can use multiple catch blocks.
So we only had one before, but we could
put two, three, however many we want or
you can use a single catch block
with multiple exceptions in them.
All right, so for polymorphism,
you could use a superclass as
a way to catch broader exceptions.
So look at this example.
This is the array index out of bound.
Look at the hierarchy there.
So array index out of bounds inherits
from index, out of bounds exception.
Which inherits from runtime exception.
Runtime is checked or unchecked?
>> Unchecked.
>> Unchecked, which is exactly why,
with the array we see it not declared.
It just happens.
It's a runtime exception.
RuntimeException inherits from exception,
who inherits from throwable,
and everybody inherits from the lang,
which is object.
So all of the exceptions that we deal with
inherit from that Exception class.
So I could do something like,
when I did that create new file.
We're catching the IOException because
that's what the method told us that it
might throw.
However, if this method
threw multiple exceptions,
and I wasn't quite sure
exactly what exception it was
gonna throw, I could use polymorphism.
And change that to say I
wanna catch exception.
If I say exception,
exception is the parent of all exceptions.
That means any subclass exception that's
thrown, this will catch that as well.
>> Would this be where you'd probably want
to print whatever message it says to find
out exactly where it's failing?
>> Anytime you wanna get the message.
You wanna, yeah.
Even if it's like the exact exception,
you still wanna get the message
because it may vary.
Even if the exception is the same,
it might, the message might vary.
>> Well, I suppose different methods to
get up multiple things wrong with them.
So, even if you fix one,
it doesn't mean you fix everything.
>> Yeah, but an exception is only
gonna be thrown for one reason.
So I might fix that and then run it again.
And another exception might be thrown for
another problem, yeah, all right.
So another alternative way
is to use multiple catch
clauses to handle the different
types of exceptions.
And I'll show you that in our code.
So let's write a program that reads
decimal numbers from a file and
then we're gonna handle two types of
exceptions that come from that program.
The FileNotFoundException in
the InputMismatchExceptions.
All right, so this should be fun.
We are going to actually to create a file.
So I want you to create this as
appear to this source directory,
so right under whatever your project name
is, I want to create a folder first.
So new directory is what I want,
all right.
So let's call this like files.
And inside of here,
we'll create a new file,
and we'll call this numbers.txt,
all right, perfect.
And let's just throw some numbers
one per line you can do decimals,
integers.
Somewhere in the middle I want you to like
throw a random string in there just so
they mess things up so
I'm gonna just say not a number.
And now I'll say 6, oops, 6.
Throw a negative in there,
all right, say -6, all right.
All right, so inside, let's make another
class under exceptions package.
This one we'll call
MultipleExceptionHandling.
All right, so, this time, within the main
method, we'll create a new file.
Don't forget to import file,
enter equals new file.
All right, [LAUGH] and give it that path.
So the path was files/numbers.txt,
all right So let's go ahead and
make a scanner.
So we use scanner before
to read from the console,
we can also use scanner to
read from files as well.
So we'll say scanner=new Scanner, and
instead of saying system.in,
we can just pass the file object.
So notice, it's already whining
about an unhandled exception.
So it says you have an unhandled
exception, it's file not found.
How do I solve for this again?
>> Try catch.
>> Try catch block, so, let's go ahead and
put this within a try block.
Then we're going to catch that exception.
What was the exception called?
FileNotFoundException.
So FileNotFoundException,
all right, great.
Now I want to read from the file, yes?
So in order to read from this file,
I'm gonna use.
Can I rename this?
I want to call it fileReader just so
you realize that it's not
the same like scanner that's
reading from the system, all right.
So with fileReader,
I mean with scanner with everything
with this thing you can say has next.
And that's just kinda like the iterator
where it lets you know if there's some
more elements.
So this'll let you know if there's
another line to read or not,
and that of course returns
a boolean value of true or false.
So we say, while there's more to read,
keep reading it in, and
then we can just, I don't know.
You can do whatever you want, but
we'll just print like what we've read, so
that we know that it's actually
reading from the file.
So we can say fileReader.nextDouble.
So same thing we've done with the console,
we can do with the file.
We're expecting numbers right.
So let's go ahead we could I
don't know in the file not found,
let's just print the message
that we get there get message.
Shall we run it.
Are you nervous?
It doesn't like this, I ran the wrong one.
All right, here we go.
So, notice it was able to
print out some of the numbers,
3, 2.5, 0, 19.9 but
when it got to that string,
it threw an exception that
says InputMismatchExceptions.
Now why did this not complain?
Why did the compiler not complain?
If it knew that there was a possibility
of an exception being thrown?
>> Still a valid input up until a point.
We told you that string had doubles.
>> Yeah, but this exception that we
have here is an InputMismatchExceptions.
I don't see like anything
here that's complaining
to say like you might get
an InputMismatchExceptions.
>> Sure, I'm checked exceptions
>> And uncheck the box exception.
So next double throws
an unchecked exception.
That's why we don't have to account for
it at all.
But we can if we want to all right?
So, what we can do here is
add another catch block,
And this time we'll say okay,
if InputMismatchExceptions is thrown.
So you can imagine where you
could do anything you want.
Maybe you wanna say, all right,
just skip that line and
keep going to the next line or
something like that, right?
So you can handle this
gracefully if you want to.
You only read the numbers
from the file and
not anything else, for
example, right, okay?
So this is a way that you can
handle like multiple exceptions,
things like multiple catch blocks there.
I'll print the same thing here.
I gave you that example but
I'm not gonna code that up.
>> If you're just doing the same
kind of response can you
be combined those catch blocks?
>> Yeah, but we're not there yet, okay.
All right, so if I wanna use, okay,
let's say I got burned by
the InputMismatchExceptions, and I'm like,
who knows what other unchecked
exceptions might occur, right?
So maybe I want to also
add one third block.
And let's add it up top, that says, what,
if any exception is thrown, any exception.
Go ahead and come here.
Now notice, as soon as I added
that one I got an error here.
On both FileNotFoundExceptions as
well as InputMismatchExceptions.
And that's because if we think
about the hierarchy exception is
the parent to both of them.
So if I catch this exception,
there's no possible way that I would ever
get to this block nor this one All right,
so if you just wanted to add that you
say no, if I get found not found,
I want to catch that and
I want to create the directory.
If I get input mismatch,
I want to skip that line and
I want to just kind of
progress to the next line.
But if I get anything else,
then I want you to just do
something differently, right?
You can do this, you just have to put
most the highest of them last.
Questions on this?
All right, so,
to your question you can handle
like different exceptions
with a single catch block.
And this will eliminate the duplication
like if you see yourself
like doing the same thing
in multiple catch blocks,
then you might want to consolidate
those into a single one.
So for example,
here we are doing the exact same thing,
e.printstacktrace in the catch block for
found not found exception.
We're doing that exact same thing in the
catch block for InputMismatchExceptions.
So what we could do is put them both
together to separate them with a pipe.
So this is saying if you find
FileNotFound exception or
InputMismatchExceptions, notice
there's just one name e,
either one of these, call it e, and then
you can print the stack trace like that.
>> Under the hood, would each of
those be two separate objects,
like each exception is a separate object
that just happens to share a name?
>> No, because the exception will only,
like one exception is thrown at a time,
and so if it matches either one of those,
it's just one object.
So it just picks whichever one it is
makes that object and then carry on.